---
title: Management 2.0
author: Shahid Shah
type: post
date: 2007-09-14T01:10:28+00:00
url: /2007/09/13/management-20/
ratings_users:
  - 2
ratings_score:
  - 2
ratings_average:
  - 1
categories:
  - 'Shahid Shah Architecture &amp; Engineering Blog'

---
Are CIOs seen as obstacles to innovation? In a nice interview with Gary Hamel, Allan Alter at [CIO Insight][1] writes:

> The efficiency-focused management model has run its course, says strategist Gary Hamel. To see the future of management, look to the Internet, open source, free markets and democratic institutions. 

It&#8217;s a good article. Some other interesting snippets:

> Has management as we know it reached the end of the road? Strategy expert Gary Hamel thinks so. Yes, traditional management approaches have led us to achieve great things. &#8220;If you have a couple of cars in the garage, a television in every room and a digital device in every pocket, you can thank the inventors of modern management,&#8221; he writes in his upcoming book The Future of Management (Harvard Business School Press, October 2007; $26.95). But our century-old emphasis on planning, organizing and controlling won&#8217;t help companies solve their 21st century problems. In an era marked by global competition and commoditization, adaptability, speed and creativity are essential for survival, says Hamel, whose previous books, &#8220;Leading the Revolution&#8221; and &#8220;Competing for the Future&#8221; (with C.K. Prahalad), earned him a reputation as one of the great strategic thinkers of our time. &#8220;The old management model is simply not good enough.&#8221;
> 
> The future management model is taking shape, but some aspects are already evident, Hamel told CIO Insight executive editor Allan Alter. Companies will finally begin to be as open and democratic inside their doors as societies are outside those doors. Go/no-go decisions on projects and investments now made by a handful of executives will be made collectively by hundreds of employees.
> 
> Talent will matter far more than titles. And one of the most important catalysts and models for 21st century management will be the Internet. 

If you&#8217;re a manager today, especially an IT manager, it&#8217;s a [good article][2] to check out.

 [1]: http://www.cioinsight.com/article2/0,1540,2181323,00.asp
 [2]: http://www.cioinsight.com/article2/0,1540,2181326,00.asp